Project proposal 1
================
Ada
2020-01-14

  - [Idea 1](#idea-1)
  - [Idea 2](#idea-2)

## Idea 1

**Overview**

The project would explore the data used to make the Opportunity Atlas. I
would look at Census tract-level data to explore the connections between
childhood neighborhoods and the children’s eventual social mobility. I
want to look at what specific neighborhood variables have the highest
correlation with upward social mobility and look at the differences
between similar income bracket neighborhoods with different mobility
outcomes.

**Data**

The data used to create the Opportunity Atlas is a collection of
datasets that are available for download
<here>[here](https://opportunityinsights.org/data/?geographic_level=0&topic=0&paper_id=1652#resource-listing)

The datasets included are “Household Income and Incarceration for
Children from Low-Income Households by Census Tract, Race and Gender”,
“All Outcomes by Census Tract, Race, Gender and Parental Income
Percentile” and “Crosswalk Between Income/Wage Percentiles and 2015
Dollars” (which relates child incomes with their parents’),
“Neighborhood Characteristics by Census Tract” (examples of
charactersitics include job density, averaage commute time, etc.).

**Goals**

  - Compare urban versus rural tracts - do the same variables affect the
    social mobility of children from these two different childhood
    environments? Is either a better overall envrionment for children in
    terms of future upward mobility?
  - For children growing up in households from each income bracket, what
    is the range of outcomes for them? For census tracts with high
    upward mobility, what differentiates them from a census tract with a
    similar economic environment that has low upward mobility?
  - How does race factor into this? How does gender?

**Links**

<here>[Opportunity
Atlas](https://opportunityinsights.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/atlas_paper.pdf)  
<here>[More General- NYTimes Exploration of Neighborhoods and Outcome of
Children](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/01/upshot/maps-neighborhoods-shape-child-poverty.html)

## Idea 2

**Overview**

This project would explore the relation between urbanization and
employement trends and the consequences on poverty using the World
Development Indicators Data. It would use the data used to create the
interactive visualization found
<here>[here](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/employment-in-agri-vs-urban-pop?time=1991..2013)
and the goal would be to explore this space with more granularity - for
example look at the trends and growth over time, whether or not there
are regionally specifications, patterns between specific countries, etc.

**Data**

The data would be the World Development Indicators datasets from
<here>[The World Bank](http://wdi.worldbank.org/tables). Specific tables
I would look at include, Pverty rates at national poverty lines, Labor
force structure, Employment by sector, Rural enviornment and land use,
Urbanization, Distribution of income or consumption and Transport
services.

**Goals**

  - Compare the timeline of urbanization in a country with the chagnes
    in employment by sector.
  - Explore poverty indiators and their relationship between
    urbanization and employement.

**Links**

<here>[General Urbanization
Graphs](https://ourworldindata.org/urbanization)  
<here>[Employment and Economic Structures
Graphs](https://ourworldindata.org/structural-transformation-and-deindustrialization-evidence-from-todays-rich-countries)  
<here>[Employment and Urbaization
Graph](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/employment-in-agri-vs-urban-pop?time=1991..2013_)
